[Music]
good morning thank you all for being
here from my right let me introduce who
I have with me and then acknowledge some
special friends to my right is Gareth
Rhodes who has been he works with the
Department of Financial Services but
he's been working with us in Albany
during this coronavirus pandemic to my
left Melissa de Rosa
who's secretary to the governor to her
left Robert Mejia who is the state
budget director he doesn't smile much in
nowadays because the state budget is not
in great shape but when the federal
government does the right thing and
gives us funding we expect that he's
gonna smile that big smile again it's a
pleasure to be in Rochester with so many
of my friends who have done such great
work for the state former lieutenant
governor Bob Duffy who worked with me
when we first got started and has done
great work for the entire state of New
York Danny Wegman pleasure to be with
you weddings is a great New York
corporation and then he's a great civic
leader and they've been very helpful
through this situation also thank you
for allowing us to do the antibody
testing at Wegmans that's been very very
helpful and we thank you for everything
you've done
and Nicole Wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our New York
forward advisory board to help us going
forward and find our way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today the total number of
hospitalizations is down you see that
curve coming down you see that mountain
that we went up now we're on the other
side of the mountain you start to see
the shape of the mountain unfortunately
be decline from the mountain is not as
steep as the incline right and the big
question for us in New York and and
every state of course the nation has
been how
fast and how low does that decline go
right how fast does the decline actually
happen and what is the lowest level that
the decline will reach unfortunately you
see that we were shaped we were hoping
for a quick up plateau at the top which
is what they talked about but a fast
decline you see the decline is again not
as steep as the incline but it is a
decline and that's good news the net
change in total hospitalizations is is
down and that change in intubations is
down and that's always good news when a
person is it intubated roughly 80% of
the times there is not a good outcome so
the fact that the intubations is down is
a good is good news and then the other
end is how many new cases are coming in
the door every day how many new
diagnoses in kovat cases and that number
is also declining so not only are the
number of people in hospitals coming
down but the number of new cases coming
in the door is down and that's good news
because it had plateaued at about 900
statewide for a few days but this number
is is down at 700 and that's a good
number I would take this with a grain of
salt as they say because this is
reporting from yesterday which was a
Sunday and sometimes we get different
results on the weekend remember this
whole reporting system has just been put
in place this never happened before this
is now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day and this number is not declining
anywhere nearly as fair
we would like to see decline still 226
New Yorkers who passed away and so we
don't become immune we talk about these
numbers
it's 226 families right that's 226 wives
or brothers or sisters or children that
are now suffering the loss of a loved
one so that we remember them in our
thoughts and our prayers people are all
talking about reopening which we should
be talking about this is not a
sustainable situation close down
everything close down the economy lock
yourself in the home you can do it for a
short period of time but you can't do it
forever but reopening is more difficult
than the closed down the closed down was
relatively simple right you go into the
basement you throw the big power switch
and everything just goes down closed the
businesses stay at home it was a blunt
operation and when that was done all
across the country just stop everything
now when you go to restart the reopening
now knowing what we know it's more
nuanced you have to be more careful and
again no one has done this before no one
has been here before so first start by
learning the lessons that we did learn
through this experience and second let's
be smart about what we do and I get the
emotion and I get the impatience and I
get the anxiety we all feel it when I
say this situation was unsustainable its
unsustainable on many levels it's
unsustainable economically it's
unsustainable personally a lot of
anxiety is now all through our community
we see it in increased alcoholism
increased substance abuse increased
domestic violence so this is a very very
difficult period and people want to move
on yes but let's be smart about what we
do and let's learn
lessons one of the lessons is we have
never been here before
and we didn't really know what was going
on
CDC releases a report end of last week
that says the virus was actually coming
to the East Coast from Europe everybody
was looking at China for all those
months China China China China yeah
China was last November December the
virus migrated from China while we were
all staring at China and with the Europe
and the strain that came to the United
States came from Europe we had people in
the airports stopping people from China
testing people from China the federal
government did a lot of testing a lot of
screening people getting off planes from
China yeah but meanwhile the people from
Europe were walking right past them and
that's where the strain came from that
was infecting this area and that's what
the CDC just learned last week and this
is going back to February right on one
of the most study topics ever again just
learn the lessons of what happened you
now add that piece of information on the
Europe trips and then you see the number
of flights that came from Europe during
that time where they landed and now you
it explains why you've seen the outbreak
in Chicago that you've seen why you've
seen the number of cases in New York
because yes the flights were landing
here people were coming from Italy and
UK and from European countries and
nobody thought to screen them nobody was
on guard and you add that to the density
of New York especially in New York City
and that virus just took off okay we
didn't know we didn't know now we do we
also can look back in history you look
at that 1918 flu pandemic that they talk
about the places that
opened too soon so that flu come right
back and by the way that flu was not one
wave that was three waves first wave
second wave third wave second wave was
worse than the first wave and you see
watch the other countries that went
through this before us right we're not
the first one down the chute there were
other countries that went down before us
you see they wanted to reopen also they
were feeling the pressure on reopening
and you study those cases and you see
that you've reopened too soon or you
reopen unintelligently and you can then
have an immediate backlash and that's
not speculation that is looking at other
countries and look at what what has
happened around the world and then you
talk to the experts who know listen to
what they're saying
dr. pouchy who i think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr. Falchi
has been through this in in different
iterations he was one of the pioneers on
the HIV virus and AIDS and he says we
could be in for a bad fall and a bad
winter could be why cuz he doesn't know
he's not sure but could be for a bad
fall or bad winter okay so put all of
this in the in the equation and then
also acknowledge and actualize that the
truth is that nobody knows what happens
next and when it happens well how can
that be that nobody knows we're so
sophisticated we have so much
intelligence we have so many experts
this is the United States of America how
can it be that no one knows because no
one knows I speak to the best experts
globally globally and nobody can tell
you for sure now experts we look to
experts and we expect them to
no so we pushed them - no answer the
question tell me when what's going to
happen in September what's going to
happen in December sometimes the answer
is I don't know sometimes that's the
honest answer I was talking to my
daughter's last night and they said you
know you say at your briefings I don't
know
how can you say that first I'm not
really sure they watch my briefings but
they're right sometimes I say I don't
know why because I don't know and if you
don't know say you don't know and I
speak again to the best minds in this
country the best minds around the globe
and they don't know so if you don't know
say you don't know it doesn't mean
you're not smart no reason to get
defensive I don't know
when you know what you don't know and
admit it it will actually keep you safe
my daughters don't quite agree with this
yet but I haven't given up on the
concept know what you don't know know
when you don't know what the future
holds you can be safe because then you
can prepare for different possibilities
and that's where we are we don't know
but we will be prepared for all
possibilities so reopening chart a
course with the best information you
have learning from the lessons you have
but be able to correct that course
depending on what happens which means
don't act emotionally don't act because
I feel this I feel that because someone
said well other states are opening so
we'll you must be able to open if other
states are open if we get the anecdotal
forget the atmospherics forget the
environment don't forget the emotional
look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science follow
the facts and that's what we've done
here from day one this is no gut
instinct this is look at the data look
at their science look at the metrics
move forward
measuring what you can and what you know
and then be prepared to adjust well I
want specificity I want to know for sure
you don't but there's liberation in
knowing that so let's do this
intelligently based on metrics and we'll
see what happens and we'll adjust to
whatever happens well what does that
mean our metrics you can measure this
and we have to measure this you look at
that percentage and the rate of
hospitalizations which we have right
that's the chart that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing so you know how
many people are testing positive and you
can watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so after
the testing you follow up and you do
that contact tracing and you are then
reducing the infection spread by
isolating the positives if you do those
things you will control the rate of
transmission of the virus which is
everything
nobody says you're going to eliminate
the virus in the short-term no body but
you can control the rate of transmission
and if you can control the rate of
transmission you can control the rate of
transmission from becoming an outbreak
or an epidemic or overwhelming your
public health system that is the best
you can do so control the rate of
transmission to what they call one point
one or less one point one is every
person infects one point one other
people more than one other person if
you're doing that that is an outbreak
that means it's going to increase
exponentially and it's going to be out
of control as long as your rate of
transmission is manageable and low then
reopen your businesses and reopen the
businesses in phases so you're
increasing that activity level while
you're watching the rate of transmission
rate of transmission goes up stop the
reopening close the valve close the
valve right away so reopen businesses do
it in phases and watch that rate of
transmission it gets over 1.1 stop
everything immediately that's where the
other countries wound up they started to
reopen they exceeded the 1.1 it became
an outbreak again they had to slow down
rather than starting and stopping you'd
rather have a controlled start so you
don't have to stop right and that's what
you learn from the other countries you
reopen too fast then you have to stop
and nobody wants to have gone through
all of this and then start just to stop
again well how does that happen first of
all it's not going to happen statewide
this state has different regions which
are in much different situations than
other regions in this state and rather
than wait for the whole state to be
ready reopen on a regional basis if
upstate has to wait for downstate to be
ready they're gonna be waiting a long
time
so analyze the situation on a regional
basis ok and you look at a region on
four measures the number of new
infections your health care capacity if
the infections goes too high you
overwhelm your health system now your
Italy with people on Gurney's in a
hallway because your hospital system
can't handle it do your diagnostic
testing so you're seeing how the
infection is increasing or decreasing
and do the contact tracing have that
system in place so when you test and you
find a positive you trace the contacts
from that positive person and you're
isolating them to bring down the rate
and you
do that on a regional basis that system
has to be in place for a regional basis
how do you start when can I start
reopening we look at guidelines from the
CDC which say a region has to have at
least 14 days of decline in total
hospitalizations and death on a
three-day rolling average so you take a
3 day average you have to have 14 days
of the client you can't have more than
15 new total cases or five new deaths on
a three day rolling average this is
telling you that you're basically at a
plateau level that you can actually
start to reopen then you're watching the
rate of infection and the spread of the
infection and the benchmark there is
fewer than two new covered patients per
100,000 residents right it's based on
your population to account for the
variants in the different sizes of
regions across the state
then anticipate protect yourself from
all possibilities well what if we have a
surge again never fill your hospitals to
more than 70% capacity leave 30 percent
in case you have a surge remember this
virus is tricky the rate of infection
per person who gets infected today shows
up in the hospital 10 days from today or
two weeks from today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks there's a lag to
it you want to make sure you have 30% of
the hospital beds available in case you
have that surge also learn the lessons
from before every hospital has to have
90 days of PPE
for that hospital at the rate that they
have been using it during covert we
cannot have another mad scramble where
nurses and doctors don't have downs and
masks etc because the hospitals don't
have the necessary stockpile so make
sure every hospital has the stockpile on
the testing we have done really
remarkable work on testing 1 million New
Yorkers have now been tested believe it
or not
and the CDC coronavirus task force for
the White House recommends that for a
region to reopen you have 30 tests for
every 1000 residents ready to go
so what testing capacity do we need for
a region to reopen you have to be
prepared to do 30 tests for every 1000
residents New York is doing more tests
than any country in the state by far New
York is doing more tests than any
country on the globe per capita so we're
way ahead and testing but it doesn't
matter what we're doing statewide to
open a region that region has to have a
testing capacity of 30 per 1000 the
National Guard has been doing a great
job for us in putting together testing
kits and distributing testing kits and
we want to thank them very much but we
have to have those tests and we have to
have what they call tracers contact
tracers in place and Mayor Bloomberg has
been very helpful former mayor of New
York City in putting together this
tracing system this is never existed
before on this scale a group of people
who literally trace contacts from a
person who's positive who did you have
dinner with last night who did you have
dinner with two nights ago who might you
have been in contact with
and then contacting those people to say
to you have any symptoms if you do you
should know you were with John Smith
John Smith tested positive he said he
went to dinner with you you should be on
alert that old tracing system has never
been done not only in this state but in
this country so this that all has to be
set up and it has to be done once that
is all done then you can talk about
reopening businesses well which
businesses do we open first you open
businesses first that are most essential
and pose the lowest risk okay most
essential and the lowest risk phase one
we're talking about construction
manufacturing and select retail with
curbside pickup they are the most
essential with the lowest risk second
phase professional services retail the
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
accommodation fourth arts entertainment
recreation education
remember density is not your friend here
large gatherings are not your friend
that's where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down at the end and then we need
businesses to also really imagine how
they're going to do business and get
ready to protect their workforce to
change their physical environment to the
extent they need to and to change their
processes to make sure people can
socially distance people remain at a
safe in a safe environment and that's
going to be up to businesses to come up
with ways to reconfigure their workplace
and their processes to make this work
and that's business by business
government can say these are the
standards but a business is going to
have to
you're out how to do that when you look
at the state there are some regions that
right now by the numbers pose a lower
risk some that pose a higher risk we can
tell you by region right now of those
criteria that we went through which ones
are in place for which region so which
ones have the right hospitalization the
right testing regimen the right contract
contact tracing regimen and which ones
still have work to do in those areas and
this is going to be region by region and
each region has to put together the
leaders in those respective areas who
put together this system and monitor
this system literally on a daily basis
so they're getting all that import all
those specifics all that data and then
day by day they're making a decision as
to how to proceed with reopening based
on the data based on the facts and
that'll be a little different for every
region in the state May 15th is when the
statewide pause order PA USC not PA WS
the pause order the pause order was
stopped all businesses stay at home that
expires on May 15th May 15th regions can
start to reopen and do their own
analysis but these are the facts that
they have to have in place to do it
start now don't wait to May 15th
don't call me up on May 15th and say
well the pause order expired
I want to open because I'm gonna ask you
the questions I just asked I just
presented do you have a healthcare
system in place is your health system
ready can your hospitals handle it
have testing in place do you have
tracing in place have you talked to the
businesses about how they're going to
reopen so we have a couple of weeks but
the this is what local leaders this is
what a community has to deal with to
reopen safely and intelligently in my
opinion this can't just be we want to
get out of the house we're going No
let's be smart let's be intelligent
let's learn from the past let's do it
based on facts you know we are at a
different time in place government is
fundamentally in a different position
than it was just a couple of months ago
this is for real now right government
politics it's not about optics it's not
about celebrities it's not about press
releases it's not about what I put on
Instagram yesterday this is about
government leaders performance their
expertise this is a situation where
their competence and their ability can
be the difference between life and death
literally and what the governments have
done federal state local what we've done
in this state has literally saved lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates dramatically by
about a hundred thousand New Yorkers 100
thousand fewer New Yorkers were
hospitalized than they predicted 100,000
think about that if we had 100,000 more
people in our hospital system first of
all our hospital system would have
collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections and we
literally saved lives how many of those
100,000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship but we've done great work
we just have to remain vigilant and
smart and competent going forward and
that's what New York tough means New
York tough means we're tough but we're
smart were disciplined we're unified and
we are loving and it's the love of
community and love of each other and
respect for each other which is what has
gotten us through this and will continue
to thank you very much for taking the
time to be here thank you for the social
distancing questions for myself or any
of my colleagues mask-wearing I said
look I believe this is the this is a
time for sort of honest straightforward
talk I said that I think it's
disrespectful of people not to wear
masks I mean think about it you see all
these commercials on TV we thank you to
our heroes thank you to the nurses thank
you to the doctors thank you to the
transit workers thank you to the police
officers and we should be thankful right
they went to work so all of us could
stay safe and go home the look the least
gratitude you can show is at least wear
the mask so you don't infect more people
who place more of a burden on the
hospitals and the nurses and the doctors
who were all saying thank you for your
your great service you really want to
say thank you
then respect them and respect their job
and wear the mask so you don't infect
people well I don't want to wear a mask
it's not that big a deal and by the way
you don't wear a mask for yourself you
wear a mask to protect me
I wear a mask to protect you we owe each
other a certain amount of reasonableness
and respect in society and I owe you
that level of respect that if I'm sick I
should wear a mask
local governments have the ability to
enforce and to penalize that's up to
local governments but do I think local
government should be enforcing it and
should there be sanctions yes yes
because it is a public health emergency
you know this is not just do me a favor
this is a public health emergency and
it's a statewide order that I put in
place that I'm proud of and local
governments have the responsibility to
enforce it and part of their right the
illegal right is they can have a penalty
or a sanction that they impose so
Rochester can have one penalty you know
you can be appropriate to the to the
community New York cities in a different
situation but yeah I think local
government should enforce it and I think
there should be a penalty because you
could little literally kill someone you
could literally kill someone because you
didn't want to wear a mask I mean how
how cruel and irresponsible would that
be yes yes you don't have to worry no
one said wear a mask all the time right
wear a mask if you may be in a situation
where you can't socially distance you go
for a walk in the woods you don't have
to be wearing a mask you come to a point
even for you from your walk in the woods
where you're going to be in a parking
lot or there's an entrance and an exit
and you may run into other people wear
the mask you can have the mask down when
you're walking in the woods but now you
see someone coming the other way I'm
gonna pass by the other person you put
the mask on I mean it's it's the least
that we can do right everyone is killing
themselves people are working 24 hours a
day show some respect
show some basic modicum of respect
yeah putting putting all of these new
systems in place is an incredible task
and you know Society now we have a
temptation to blame well who's to blame
who's to blame nobody is to blame that
we don't have testing capacity for
millions of Americans we've never done
this before
our testing system was basically for the
flu test or strep or some other blood
test when the doctor would send you to a
lab to get a blood test we never had a
testing system in this nation that could
do this volume so this whole thing is
the scramble and it was a scramble
between the federal government in the
States who's supposed to do it who's
responsible I had a good meeting with
the president a while back where we sat
down and we said look the states
controlled the labs we have about 300
labs in in New York State we regulate
them the state should be responsible for
what they can do and we need the federal
government to help where they can the
supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is an
international supply chain ironically so
much of this stuff comes from China it's
like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals as well as the
PPE when we were looking for masks and
gowns everything was in China but the
federal government has assumed the
responsibility of that international
supply chain the reagents etc the states
sort of take over at the state line but
that supply has increased and we are
distributing it and as you saw we're
doing more testing than any other state
or any other country per capita so we're
coming online very very quickly but we
still have more to do
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the what plan they need to reopen
schools which is basically the analog to
what a business needs right I want to
reopen my manufacturing company okay how
do you do it and keep people six feet
apart how do you do it in the cafeteria
how do you do it in the transport how do
you run your business in a way that's
going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school part of the issue for our school
was just the the gatherings in the
school you have 25 students in a class
how do you put 25 students in a class in
their 6 feet apart I mean look at this
space right even these press conferences
you need for 20 people you need you know
a tremendous sized room how how would
you do that in the school how do you
socially distance students do you need
more classrooms which means they need
more teachers how do you serve lunch
what do you do about the bus how do you
keep fewer students on the bus so those
kinds of details have to be in the
reopening plan they'll get guidance on
that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for a school
because think about it
the problem is the gathering a school is
a gathering that's what it is
yeah look I get the whole liber8
movement there's no reason for a closing
of anything just open everything up and
let everybody go do whatever they want
to do I get that argument I hear it I
understand it I'm sympathetic to it you
know everybody wants out I also know the
facts of what has happened to the places
have who have done that and what you
suggest that was all those countries
that saw saw a spike in the number of
cases right afterwards saw a spike in
the infection rate sort of spike in the
hospitalizations or spike in the number
of deaths and I would like to see as few
New Yorkers pass away as possible so yes
people want to get out on the other hand
we want to do it in a responsible way
and that's the whole question
you know 80 and 90% of us don't get the
coronavirus nobody has gotten the
coronavirus before some people say well
this is like a flu yeah it's not like a
flu even eighty ninety percent of us
don't get the flu right but this is a
different beast that we're dealing with
and we learned that the hard way you
don't hear anyone saying anymore this is
like the flu right that was back in
January February that was before we had
18,000 people in our hospitals in New
York this is not a flu let's take one
more yes
yeah this is a national problem we have
unemployment systems states run the
unemployment system in this case we have
a lot of federal benefits that are
running through the unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone operators and a website to handle
like thousands of calls thousands of
input
we now have millions of inputs it is
overwhelmed every state unemployment
website office etc I talked to all the
governor's on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims federal
government then just passed a piece of
legislation several weeks ago that had
additional benefits for people which
then required new signups and then it
brought more people to the websites etc
we have hired over 3,000 people to
actually run our unemployment service
our website and to handle the telephones
3,000 people which is just incredible
just for the unemployment line and we've
made great progress there is still for
some people a delay because you do have
to document and certify that the person
is eligible you just can't be just to
somebody close up and you Bob Duffy
calls and you say okay and you send them
a check federal law and common sense
requires that you affirm certain
information the good news is even if
there's a delay on the website it
doesn't cost you any money when you get
the check the check is from the date of
your eligibility even though the website
can be a pain in the neck to deal with
but I'll ask Melissa de Rosa who has
been overseeing this if she has an
update on the unemployment site and this
is actually very important in
Commissioner Reardon is gonna do a call
later today to brief out on the latest
what we found in the last several days
is that a lot of the people who are in
pending
this have not gone on and certified
their unemployment status which is a
separate process from going through the
application so you file the application
you do the phonecall you process through
but then you have to go into the website
into your account and certify they are
unemployed and that's something you have
to do every week by Saturday so you can
either do it on your website account or
you can call there's two separate
numbers for unemployment insurance it's
eight eight eight five eight one five
eight one two and four pandemic
unemployment insurance it's eight three
three three two four OH three six six
and you have to do that every single
week and certify that you are still
unemployed and eligible to work and then
they process that information so we sent
out 90,000 emails over the weekend to a
batch of people we identified that we're
stuck in that pending status because of
that and as I said Commissioner
Reardon's gonna be doing a more detailed
call this afternoon to continue to get
this information out to the public but
that is the number one thing that I
would recommend to those people who are
still sitting in pending status yes
priority status and just to punctuate
one other thing the governor said about
the flu the one big difference between
corona virus and the flu is that the flu
has a vaccine so for those people who
are still making that comparison I'd
like you to consider that
but you don't know what on the flu
vaccine a corona virus you don't know
what percent is gonna wind up getting it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either well that's not true
but yeah let's say it is true that the
overwhelming number of people who get it
don't die yeah
okay yeah that's fine unless you're the
person who dies then it's not so fine
yeah the the nursing homes have seen in
many ways the most intense issue here
and when you think about where this even
started it started in a nursing home in
Washington of Washington the vulnerable
population our senior citizens people
with comorbidities compromised immune
systems and a nursing home is a
aggregation of those people and that's
how it started
and that is where it is most dangerous
in the nursing homes I understand that I
understand the nursing home staff has
been doing doing the people who staff
these nursing homes have been doing a
fantastic job because it really is very
difficult and we had to put some
precautions in place that are just so
harsh I mean we can't have we said no
visitors to a nursing home during this
entire time I mean just think how harsh
that is right but all it takes is one
person to walk into that nursing home
with the virus and then you're off to
the races so we're doing everything we
can the nursing homes are working very
hard we also announced an investigation
with the Attorney General and the
Department of Health to make sure the
nursing homes are doing what they need
to do many of them are privately run but
this state can regulate them they have
to notify families etc so we're doing an
investigation on that but remember the
basic premise of the nursing home the
nursing home can only accept or keep a
patient if if they can provide adequate
care for that patient if they have a
kovat patient or non kovat patient but
they can't provide adequate care for
that person it is their obligation to
transfer the person if they can't find
the place to transfer the person it's
their obligation to call the State
Department of Health and the State
Department of Health will transfer the
person we have facilities for
wha'd nursing home residents we have
some facilities that are just Fork Ovid
positive nursing home residents so we
have those facilities available if a
nursing home can't care for a co vyd
resident called the Department of Health
the Department of Health will transfer
the patient period and that
responsibility is on the nursing home
they have to know who they can care for
and who they can't care for if they
can't care for them for any reason my
staff is out sick I don't have the PPE
I can't quarantine I can't isolate for
whatever reason they have an obligation
to call the State Department of Health
and say I have to transfer this person
and we have existing facilities and beds
for them but the nursing home has to
make that determination and if they are
caring for people or they have people
who they're not suited to care for then
they're violating the state policy and
that's part of what this investigation
is going to look at so I've sent the
nursing homes before I say it again if
you cannot provide adequate care then
that person has no business being in
your nursing home and we do have
facilities and we do have beds that can
care for nursing home residents and do
it well and do it safely last point I'd
like to make the today we're talking
about what local government officials
have to do what each region has to do to
be ready May 15th is a possible
reopening if you're ready this is how
you're ready learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation where yes government is
first and foremost in a position where
they have to make decisions and perform
and do it well and competence matters
and professionalism matters and will
hold government officials accountable I
to be held accountable hold government
officials accountable but we also need
local officials we need our hospital
administrators to be a big part of this
and we need every citizen to be part of
this you know who's gonna keep you safe
you are you are not me you are by your
actions you know who's gonna keep your
family safe your family and you are by
being responsible and reasonable in this
situation and then you know how we keep
each other safe by our individual
responsibility and respect by wearing
the masks by maintaining the social
distancing that's how we get through
this every body has a role to play here
there was no pointing fingers nobody's
been here before it's no one else's job
it's all of us together and that's what
has worked so well so far we just have
to stay at it it's been an honor to be
with you thank you very much
[Music]
you